Add a new shape the future page for provisioning infrastructure using Infrastructure as Code (IaC) (#7534)
Particular/docs.particular.net: nservicebus/operations/system-resources.md

---

> title: System resources
> summary: System resources consist of all infrastructure pieces needed for the endpoint to work properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deployment-required system resources
summary: Describes all the system resources and infrastructure components needed for endpoints to work properly
```

reviewed: 2025-07-21
component: core
related:
 - nservicebus/operations
---

> System resources (pieces of infrastructure) required by endpoints to run can be deployed automatically using [installers](/nservicebus/operations/installers). When deploying infrastructure manually without using installers (i.e., with Infrastructure as Code), there arem any areas that need to be considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
System resources (infrastructure components) required by endpoints to run can be deployed automatically using [installers](/nservicebus/operations/installers). When deploying infrastructure manually without using installers (i.e., with Infrastructure as Code), several key areas must be considered.
```

## Areas

> [!NOTE]

> > This section may be incomplete. Consult documentation for the elements that are used to learn more. This section may also include deprecated and legacy elements which may be of importance when deploying endpoints using older versions of NServiceBus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This section may be incomplete. Review the documentation for each implemented feature or functionality to learn more. This section may also include deprecated and legacy elements, which may be of importance when deploying endpoints using older versions of NServiceBus.
```

> Components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list collects general information needed when deploying endpoints:
```

> - What versions of NServiceBus are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What versions of [NServiceBus](/nservicebus/) are used
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following general information is needed when provisioning endpoints:
```

> - What message types are used (including inheritance hierarchy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What message types are used (including inheritance hierarchy and message assemblies versions)
```

> - What assemblies are used (including dynamic assemblies and automatically scanned assemblies)

Reviewer: From a deployment perspective, why would I need such information?

Author: I can't imagine how they would know what subscriptions to configure without knowing their message types and which types are even included in the endpoint.

> - What Platform components are used (i.e., monitoring instance, error instance, audit instance, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What Platform components are used (i.e., [error instance](/servicecontrol/servicecontrol-instances/), [audit instance](/servicecontrol/audit-instances/), [monitoring instance](/servicecontrol/monitoring-instances/), etc)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What Platform components are used (i.e., [error instance](/servicecontrol/servicecontrol-instances/), [audit instance](/servicecontrol/audit-instances/), [monitoring instance](/servicecontrol/monitoring-instances/), etc.)
```

> - Whether MassTransit Connector is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether [MassTransit Connector](/servicecontrol/masstransit/) is used
```

> - Whether transport adapters are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether any legacy [transport adapter](/servicecontrol/transport-adapter) is used
```

> - Whether message bridges are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether the [messaging bridge](/nservicebus/bridge/) is used
```

> - Whether gateways are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether [gateways](/nservicebus/gateway/) are used
```

> - What community components are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What [community components](/nservicebus/community/) are used
```

> - Whether [MassTransit Connector](/servicecontrol/masstransit/) is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether the [MassTransit Connector](/servicecontrol/masstransit/) is used
```

> - Whether the [messaging bridge](/nservicebus/bridge/) is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether the [messaging bridge](/nservicebus/bridge/) is used, how many bridges have been implemented, and for each one of them:
  - What are the endpoints they are responsible for bridging
  - What are the transports they are supporting
```

> - Whether [gateways](/nservicebus/gateway/) are used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whether any [gateway](/nservicebus/gateway/) is used and their configured  persistence type
```

> Core components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each endpoint that needs to be deployed, the following information must be collected to successfully deploy systems without using installers:
```

> - Name of the endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The name of the endpoint, which determines the endpoint main input queue name
```

Author: Input queue can be renamed explicitly. Not sure saying "which determines" is applicable here.

- Attributes of the infrastructure (i.e., quotas, delivery count, TTL, etc.)
- Attributes of the subscription (i.e., topics, table prefixes, table names, etc.)
- Queues required by the transport (i.e., timeout queues, delay queues, dead letter queues, etc.)
- Technology-specific queues (i.e., queues for delays that differ between versions, queues for quorum, etc.)

Persistence specific:

- Outbox details (i.e., prefixes and table names, etc.)
- Saga details (i.e., prefixes and table names, etc.)
- (Legacy) Timeout details (i.e., prefix and table names for timeout manager, etc.)
- (Legacy) Subscription cache (i.e., prefix and table names, etc.)

Platform specific:

- Main instance:
 - Queues (i.e., input queue, error queue, error forwarding, saga audit queue, audit forwarding queue, queue used for Service Pulse, acknowledgement queue, staging queue for Edit & Retry, throughput data, internal errors)
 - Databases (i.e., RavenDB instances)
- Audit instance
 - Queues (i.e., input queue)
- Metrics instance
 - Queues (i.e., input queue)

MassTransit connector specific:

- Queues used by MassTransit (i.e., the queues on "the other end")
- Error queues

> - Connector-specific queues (i.e., return queue, poison queue, etc.)

Reviewer 2: - The [return queue](https://docs.particular.net/servicecontrol/masstransit/#what-queues-are-created) used by the Mass Transit connector
- The [platform specific](#platform-specific-details) infrastructure

- What Platform components are used (i.e., [error instance](/servicecontrol/servicecontrol-instances/), [audit instance](/servicecontrol/audit-instances/), [monitoring instance](/servicecontrol/monitoring-instances/), etc.)
- Whether the [MassTransit Connector](/servicecontrol/masstransit/) is used
- Whether any legacy [transport adapter](/servicecontrol/transport-adapter.md) is used

### Endpoint details

For each endpoint that needs to be deployed, the following information must be collected to successfully provision infrastructure without using installers:

- Name of the endpoint, which by default determines the [main input queue](/nservicebus/endpoints/specify-endpoint-name.md#input-queue) name
- If the endpoint is configured to be [uniquely addressable](/nservicebus/messaging/routing.md#make-instance-uniquely-addressable)
- Additional queues required by the endpoint (e.g., error, audit, metrics monitoring, heartbeats, and custom checks queues)
- Any custom endpoint [satellite](/nservicebus/satellites/) queue
- Subscriptions required by the endpoint (e.g., subscription for every event type, manually created subscriptions, etc.)
- Whether outbox is enabled

> - Message types processed by this endpoint (including inheritance hierarchy, dynamically laoded types, and assembly scanning)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Message types processed by this endpoint alongside their inheritance hierarchy
```

### Transport specific details

> - Topology (e.g., bundle topics, hierarchy bundle, filtering for subscriptions, etc.)

Reviewer: those are things a user would not understand

> - Attributes of the infrastructure (e.g., quotas, delivery count, TTL, etc.)
> - Attributes of the subscriptions (e.g., topics, table prefixes, table names, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Infrastructure entity-specific attributes (e.g., queue quotas and delivery count, message TTL, topic names, table name prefixes and schema, etc.)
```

> - Queues required by the transport (e.g., timeout queues, delay queues, dead letter queues, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transport-specific entities (e.g., timeout queues, delay queues, dead letter queues, etc.)
```

> - Technology-specific queues (e.g., queues for delays that differ between versions, queues for quorum, etc.)
> - Attributes of the infrastructure (i.e., quotas, delivery count, TTL, etc.)
> - Attributes of the subscription (i.e., topics, table prefixes, table names, etc.)
> - Queues required by the transport (i.e., timeout queues, delay queues, dead letter queues, etc.)
> - Technology-specific queues (i.e., queues for delays that differ between versions, queues for quorum, etc.)

Reviewer: Another leftover from yesterday

```suggestion
```

---
title: Deployment requirements for NServiceBus systems
summary: Outlines the infrastructure, configuration, and runtime resources required to successfully deploy an NServiceBus system to production.
reviewed: 2025-07-21
component: core
related:
 - nservicebus/operations
---

System resources (infrastructure components) required by endpoints to run can be deployed automatically using [installers](/nservicebus/operations/installers.md). When deploying infrastructure manually without using installers (e.g., with Infrastructure as Code), several information must be gathered.

> [!NOTE]
> To request other mechanisms for provisioning NServiceBus systems, consult the following public issues and voice your interest accordingly:
>
> - https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/7370

> > - https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus/issues/7189

Author: Fixed.
